# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* platform support - currently the game can only be played on a brower that has the inputs of a mouse and keyboard
* number of levels - there are only two levels for the game with the target&#x20;
* more advanced obstacles - Even tho there obstacles that the player has to over come to get to the exit. More advanced obstacle will be an added bonus to the game&#x20;
* character ability - the character should have the ability to attach the enemy&#x20;
* health bar - due to the time constrains of the project i feature that was wanted was to add a health bar the game , but this was never achieved&#x20;

With additional time in the future i am certain i can fix these issue . which will enable me to provide more of a complete game to the players.&#x20;

## Maintenance



#### space for growth&#x20;

For the game to advance it would first be required to go through the short-term development plan in order to be free of bugs. Once in good shape the development can continue. New features will start to be added to the game when a long-term plan to develop the game is created , which will expand the project's programming code. The project's present limitations that must be looked over and changed in order for the game to advance. This will help determine how far the game can be developed and what new features it might eventually add.

&#x20;For the game to progress there is potential that a group people would be needed because, during this process the game would expand to a size that will make managing it and be able to continuously  release improvement   difficult for a single individual to handle . When I wrote the code, I made an consistent effort to make it as easy to understand as possible by adding comments along the way. But before programmers  can help with programming , the programmers would  may need to undergo training before being capable of coding in kaboom.js  as some some may not have the experience needed to code in kabaoom.js.

Lastly, to help the game grow an additional team members can be enlisted to help with locating and resolving issues ( mainly bugs) as well as putting new features into the game. Team members can work on various game components as the code base grows, ensuring that all game components are being developed concurrently. This is crucial since more players will probably result in higher demand for game development and enhancements.&#x20;

## Future Development

### Short Term plan&#x20;

### Bug Fixes&#x20;

* The overlapping of the hit box between the coins and obstacles - To solve this bug I would place the coins far enough away from the obstacles so that each of the hitbox does not overlap but instead are just next to each other. Another solution to this bug would e to make the obstacles and coin smaller this means that they can stay in the same place by with a smaller hit box
* The moving platforms - To solve the moving platform bug where if the player intercept the moving platform the side, the platform with bonus of the player and go back the way it came from , i would alter the design of the platform by adding side spikes to the moving platform thus by adding the spikes if the player touch the side whilst trying to get onto the platform they will lose there live
* Slower performance - Mentioned in the 3.2 usability test after the game run the game itself will slow down to solve this bug i would try simplify the code even more so it takes less time for the computer to run the code with its limited resources
* stopwatch - to solve the bug of the stopwatch i would make the word "stopwatch " and the stopwatch counter  separate from each other after which i can position them with the (pos()) function individually

#### &#x20;Testing

If all goes to plan in which all of the bugs of the games are addressed and after testing which has been proven successful , a bug free version will be released into the public. After which I would take the bug free version of the game and used  as the basis upon which new features can be developed and added onto as well as listening to the public player enable me to add features that the public would like to see.

#### Progress tracker

After fixing all of the bug i would like to implement a progress tracker into the menu main. this will enable the player to see how many coins they have collect overall as well as  seeing the there best overall time they have had whilst playing the game.



#### pause button&#x20;

I want to create a pause button that will allow the player to take a break during the game. this can be achieved by having a button on the top right hand corner that the player can activate through use a key on the keyboard (such as the letter "p") and once press the game temporarily stop including the stopwatch  . By having this feature it will improve the usability of the game .



## Long Term  Addressing Limitations

The game's restrictions will prevent it from developing further. The main areas of focus for future game development will be these constraints.

#### current limitations

The game's restrictions will prevent it from developing further. The main areas of focus for future game development will be these :

* Levels - This limitation can be address by build more levels since the basics needed for the additional levels is already setup ( this is shown in cycle 7).
* graphics - This limitation can be addressed by getting a design artist to do  the graphic need for the game&#x20;
* platform support - This limitation can be solved by allow different inputs and creating a stand alone application for the game to be played from
* multiplayer mode - allowing different game styles  of this game  to be player ( solo , duo and online)
* performance - This limitation can be addressed by simplifying the code so that there less time being spend decode and executing the code which means that the game can run smother



### Levels

Over time i want create  additional levels which will evolve to have a number of different obstacles , more powerful enemy and new game features. By creating 6 - 7 new level i can will be able to make variation of the game with each level having their own unique element . This will ultimately increase the players gaming experience .



### graphics

Over the long term i want to redesign some of sprites to look more retro and cartoonist as well as being simple. This is also in additional to adding a background that adapt to the player movement or where the player is at in the game thus providing the game with more of a complete look.&#x20;

### platform support

When adding additional features to the game it will get to a point in which the bower can not handle the requirement of the game. This will ultimately compel me to create a stand alone application in which that the game can be played . By doing so the game will not be affected by the lack of performance and thus make the game more efficient and subsequently provide a smoother game. Additional the game be played on different devices whilst not being limited to only pc and laptop but instead with the correct input ( e.g touch screen ) the game can be played on moblie phones&#x20;

### &#x20;&#x20;





#### Future limitation&#x20;



Hardware  requirements - As the game becomes more advanced there will be a point where the browser will no longer be able to handle the requirements the game. This means that the game has to become offline in which the game can be played from the user's pc / laptop with ample resources to power the game .



complexity - Some of the feature i have in planned may be too complex to executed this may be due to a lack of knowledge on how to implement the feature or it could be that i am unable to complete due to the state of my game , in which that it could take more step to get the point

\




