# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Mechanics&#x20;

### Controls&#x20;

The controls for my game have been chosen with the intention of being easy to interact with, whilst proving the necessary keys for movement and retaliation against enemies & obstacles. From the research that was done in [1.3](../analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md#fire-boy-and-water-girl), I have concluded that the keyboard is best suited for my game. For player one occupying the arrow keys for movement along with O, and P for punches and kicks, respectively. For player two, the controls of WASD are used for movement jointly with R, and T for punches and kicks, also respectively. The selection of these keys provides a good separation for both players who are playing on one keyboard as the intended market audience for my game is under 16 years of age. It should be noted that with each additional keybind, added for extra features, the complexity of the controls will increase.

### Variable player numbers (solo, duo, or multiplayer)&#x20;

As part of my game design l wish to make my game appeal to a wide range of players. Due to this reason I wish that my game can be played in three different styles of gameplay: solo, duo, or multiplayer. The simplest version is solo, whereby the player is required to fight bots by themselves without being pushed or falling off into a pool of substance that has the ability to take away one life, whilst collecting all gems to be able to exit. The next style of gameplay is a duo, this is when there are only two players in a local setting (where they are using one computer to play my game). In this scenario, both players will fight an increased amount of bots on a harder level ultimately forcing them to combine each other's power-up/ability to win over the bots whilst collecting the gems to exit. Finally, the last style of gameplay is multiplayer. This style of gameplay can be only done from only individual computers for each players' subsequently, each player will have to fight against bots that will target each player specifically after which a big boss will enter the game for all of the players to him collectively once that is achieved the have to collect the gems by doing puzzles. As an added feature in the duo and multiplayer game modes, there is additional complexity added in terms of a hidden exit feature.   &#x20;

### Multiplayer connecting&#x20;

For this to be achieved all of the players from different devices have to join a system that has been set up this can be a server or a device where all of the players can play on. For example, the host's pc). For the other players to join the game host will select a game map or levels after which a large number will be generated by the game; the game host will share this number by which means they chose. Following the distribution of the number, the other player will enter these values onto a  multiplayer joining section of the game. The game will begin, then the players in the same starting point of the game host from which the player can play the game.&#x20;

### Hidden exit&#x20;

To add to the game I've improved an aspect of an existing solution. With existing solutions (such as fire boy and water girl) the exit is in a constant location such as in the corner of the level or in the center. I plan to make the door appear in a random location on the map that the player can get to after completing the objective. This will be done by selecting all of the locations on the map that the player can reach. Afterwards, I would assign a value from 0 to the number of selected locations. After all of the locations have been assigned a value, a random number generator will output a value that will correspond to a location on the map subsequently revealing the door. To help the player find the door, the door itself can be set to be illuminated or arrows will appear on the screen pointing in the general location of the door on the map. Furthermore, on the duo and multiplayer game modes, it can be set that the door appears in all different locations as supposed to one location.

### Power-ups&#x20;

Like any classical game, power-ups give the character extra abilities such as increased speed, strength, or jump height whilst limiting the time that character possesses these powers. Likewise, I also wish to implement similar power-ups at specific moments of the game; this can be at the start, middle, and end of the level, I wish to do it in a manner where the power-ups will appear near the character when it is approached. With every power-up comes with a different ability, such an example of this would be when the player is fighting a bot on a moving platform, the power-up will appear near the character offering extra jumping height and speed. &#x20;

To limit the overuse and the duration of the power-ups I would set a specific amount of power-ups for each level in conjunction with a 15-second use period followed by a cooldown period (2  minutes until the next power-up). Furthermore, to provide any value to the character I wish for the players to have a plethora of power-ups to choose from such as increased speed, jump height, and strength in addition to shield and health regeneration.  An additional feature I would like to integrate with the power-ups is a power bar displaying the duration left before the power-up ends with a 5-second alert function as well as this another bar will be shown displaying the cool down period until the power-up ends.



### **Levels and challenges**&#x20;

### Game layout and design&#x20;

The level will be resented in a 2d platform space consisting of floating platforms, moving platforms that can be constantly moving or it can be made into extra steps on the other side (by making it be controlled by a lever/button) and a "break way" platform (such that one player stands on it then jumps off of it will disintegrate forcing the player to go onto the next platform and there is no turning back). The layout of the map will be designed in a way that the players will reach a specific point in the level where to will go against the challenge of that level before the hidden exit appears. &#x20;

### Obstacles&#x20;

For every level in the game, players will be challenged against obstacles from the start to finish. For this to be achieved the player will have to face different challenges that have the ability to take away health points for the health bar. It should be noted that as the level gets harder so do the obstacles. An example of this would be in level one there might be only a laser that turns on and off every so often but in level 10 there can be a pit with spikes at the bottom and whilst standing near it a spring-loaded wall can try to push the player in. The obstacles that I have thought of to incorporate into my game are: Saws - which have the ability to move up and down, enemies/bots, and pits - where at the start with no spikes but later on with spikes as the player goes through the levels, laser- that turns off and on periodically and a spring-loaded board - this can be in the floor of the platform or against the wall.&#x20;

&#x20;

### Enemies&#x20;

Fighting enemies thorough out the level can provide a better gaming experience. This can only be achieved with the fighting bots having a balanced ratio between sticking damage and the health or the number of hits they can accumulate before they are killed. For this to be sustainable, the player will go through each level fighting bot that ranges from easy to hard (the big boss will be on the highest level). To accommodate for the different modes of gameplay solo, duo, and multiplayer the level of difficulty will be different between modes, for example, the easy fighting bot in solo will not be the same level of difficulty as it is in duo or multiplayer.&#x20;



### Puzzles&#x20;

The puzzles that I have in mind will be interrogated into my game in the form of buttons, levers, and passcode gates. The players will have to corporate together in order to open gates, move blocks and temporarily stop the platform from moving to a stationary position and let each other pass through. Additionally, the passcode gate requires one player to find the four-digit code that is placed somewhere in the level whilst the other player fights against bots to protect the exit gate (if these gates are in one location). Including puzzles in my game provides positive stimuli for each player helping the player to remain interested in the game.



### Side-scrolling camera view (shadow)&#x20;

The side-scrolling camera view in most games is presented in a vast open-style manner. However, in my game I aim to reduce the field of view from the player and let the player themselves explore the map, thus helping the player to be engaged for a longer period of time as the player is eager to find out what is going to happen next; once the player has explored the level by walking the place the player has walked will be lit up. Furthermore, obscuring the level map from the player and them in a "fog of war", it will help the level to appear more vast and open.&#x20;

####

#### Graphics and  user experience/user interface

### User interface

As most user interfaces are complex to navigate most complex games I aim to make my user interface easy to interact with helping the player jump straight into the game. This will be done by presenting the player with a home page where there will be one central button that will take the player straight into the game section where the player will be presented with all of the levels in this section the level the player is currently on will be illumined  (additionally if the player is still on the same level when going back into the level select screen the illuminating the level will appear different compare to if it has been played or just completed). If you go back to the home page just below the central button are the other game modes "duo" & " multiplayer". By selecting multiplayer, another page will appear displaying the option to create a game or join a game.  &#x20;



## graphics&#x20;

&#x20;

## Limitations

### Multiple levels&#x20;

One of the many limitations I will face with my project will be having to create multiple levels. This is due to the reason of time constraints; instead, I aim to limit the number of levels (5-6 levels) and prioritize the quality of the level in the game.&#x20;

### Multiplayer&#x20;

As one of the core aspects of the project, I had aimed to create a multiplayer style where users could play from their own PC. However, due to the over-complexity of adding multiplayer and with the lack of knowledge & inexperience with coding along with the allocated time for my project I may not be able to achieve this instead I will do only a solo and duo game style where players can play locally on one pc.

### Graphics

The final limitation I will counter will be making my game aesthetically pleasing as my focus for my project is mostly focused on the functionality of my game and if it successfully passes the tests I subject it to.    &#x20;
